well howdy there internet people it's
beau
gown so today we're going to talk about
evictions
miners and mountains
because 99 years ago today
something happened up on blair mountain
in west virginia
something that doesn't often get covered
in history books
though it should because it uh
aside from the scale of what happened
it had a whole lot of down the road
impacts on american history policy
all kinds of things but it gets
overlooked
in my opinion because of the message
that it sends
and some of the uncomfortable truths
that it exposes so let me lay the scene
during world war one coal was king
making money hand over fist okay
however at the end of the war that
wasn't the case anymore
while most industries were going through
the roaring 20s
coal was losing they were going down
so they uh the mine operators
had to make their money somehow so they
cut wages
and by wages i mean script script
was little notes that could be used at
the company store
you could exchange this for real money
at a cut rate of course
miners were facing bad conditions
so they wanted better conditions and
they were just asking for absurd stuff
you know like an eight-hour work day
working five days a week hourly pay
wild stuff stuff that's just
unimaginable crazy entitled people right
they realize that the state and federal
government they're not going to help
they're they're not going to get any
relief from the government so they start
organizing on their own
they start coming together and
supporting each other
they start unionizing united mine
workers
is one of the important ones
okay so that kind of lays out the scene
it should also be noted that the minds
really were the government during this
period in time
in this area the minds were the law
and they enforced their law through
gun thugs
these were private contractors private
security brought in
to enforce the will of the minds
they were bad all around bad and they
operated
above the law
so may 19 1920
some gun thugs roll into town and uh
they're there to evict people
illegal evictions incidentally not that
it mattered because the miners were
powerless to stop them
they couldn't do anything about it the
the wealthy people
had their own enforcement class those
people who were willing to
accept pay and
do whatever they were told
there was uh one cop in the area
sid hatfold who wasn't
in bed with the mining companies
he goes to arrest the gun thugs
the gun thugs say well we got a warrant
for your arrest
the mayor who happens to be with him
asks
to see the warrant the mayor says
it's both at which point one of the gun
thugs on holsters
a fight follows how it started
is is disputed we don't exactly know
not really what we do know
is when the smoke cleared there were
seven gun thugs on the ground along with
three residents
one of which was the mayor
the cop gets charged because he was not
compliant with the ruling party there so
he gets the blame
he is acquitted and this kind of turns
him into
the face of the minor struggle
becomes a symbol of the battle to
organize
to get better conditions so it's
completely unsurprising that in july of
he gets charged with taking out a coal
a cold transport station and by taking
out i mean boom
okay whether or not he did it again
we'll probably never know um
there are differing accounts of that as
well some say yeah he did some say no
the mind set him up at the end of the
day it doesn't really matter
because they were he had to go to
mcdowell
county to talk to the judge
mcdowell county was in the pocket
of the mining companies
hatfold uh expressed some concerns about
going there
and they were well founded because when
he showed up
three gun thugs ambushed him took him
out
miners were outraged obviously
um now most people
were calling for calm waiting to see
what would happen
of course the gun thugs were
kind of exonerated more outrage
people still call for calm with the
exception
of one woman mary harris jones otherwise
known as
mother jones like the magazine
low intensity struggle followed minor
stuff minor skirmishes nothing
too wild yet but then a rumor went out
and the rumor was that some gun thugs
had taken out some organizers
and that their families had been caught
in the crossfire
outrage full blown outrage
and minors are ready to go mother jones
calls for calm she is accused of going
soft
four to thirteen thousand miners
head towards blair mountain take trains
raid arm stations they're ready
to go the opposing side is led by
sheriff who is in the pocket of the
mining companies
and he is backed up by a bunch of gun
thugs
paid for by the mining companies they
number one to two thousand
seems like it should be an easy win for
the miners
problem is the gun thugs have machine
guns
and airplanes to bomb the miners for
real
it pops off on august 25th
by august 26 it has gotten so bad that
president harding
is like okay this has to stop or i'm
sending in my troops
and my bombers the miners are like okay
we've got the federal government's
attention we'll get some relief we'll
get some better conditions
they start to kind of fade away
the story goes that the sheriff wanted
that battle
he wanted to break the union he wanted
the fight
a rumor circulates that some gun thugs
took out some labor organizers
and their families back up the mountain
everybody goes
fighting continues until september
second
thousands of people millions of rounds
expended
you can go up to that mountain today you
will still find spent shell casings
bullets weapons
federal troops arrive the miners think
the federal troops are going to be on
their side
they were wrong the government went with
the money
almost a thousand miners get arrested
some are acquitted by sympathetic juries
some go up on some pretty serious
charges
the end of the day what happened when
it's all said and done
the union was broke membership dropped
like a rock
and it seemed as though all was lost
however from a wider perspective what
happened
the miners provoked that overreaction
from the government
in this case the government is the
mining companies
they provoked that overreaction during a
security clampdown
probably didn't mean to but that's what
happened
so long term membership went back up
there were senate hearings which led to
federal legislation
which led to court battles which led to
it going all the way to the supreme
court
which most importantly led to widespread
popular
support from the people
it's a really important little chapter
in american history
but it often gets overlooked
interesting side note up on that
mountain
the gun thugs wore white armbands
and the miners wore red scarfs
rednecks you can see this at
the mine wars museum in west virginia
it's one of the origins of the term
rednecks have uh
labor organizing unions
it's in their dna
100 years ago though 99
not much has changed not much has
changed not really
all of this happened because
during an economic downturn
the rich folk couldn't weather the storm
so they further kicked down they pushed
down on the little people
and that led to a bunch of evictions
something we uh we might want to keep in
mind
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good day